Prince here or concept tease,
how to access the application which is running inside of a container.
Now let me go with that.
See basically we are using containers to run
applications, more specifically, microservices.
Very soon we will discuss about microservices.
Fine.
Now here, let me run a static application using HTTP web server in a container.
First, let me open my Docker host C here we already pulled some are docker images.
These all are docker images which are available on our docker host locally.
And let me display the containers which are running on my Dakota host.
Now let me create a new container by
selecting sent waves image with the six dot-dot-dot version.
We already know how to create a container that is by using docker,
run hyphen, hyphen D.
Now let me take a name for my container,
custom name, let's say static application.
And here I want to create this container by taking
sent ways image with Watson as sub 06 dot-dot-dot.
Fine. See here one more thing,
internal off and giving your image name.
You can also provide image ID,
either image name with a tag or simply can provide
image ID to create a container with your required image.
That's fine.
Now let me enter.
Now it has been created a container.
Now let me list to the available containers.
So this is the container which we created just no.
Fine.
No, let me enter into that container by using Docker EX EC hyphen IT, then Container ID.
Then I want to connect with that container using Bash shell.
Now I entered into that container.
Now here, as of now,
I don't have any HTTP web server.
Now let me install it by taking yum install
HTTPD command will install your head to the DPT website just to wait for some time.
It has been installed your page 3D beauty web server on this host?
No, let me verify the status. As of now.
This with ease.
Sent weighs 6.8. So Incentive A6 dot-dot-dot.
You don't have system CTL command.
Instead of that, you had to take Service Command, Service HTTPD status.
So that head to the DPT is not running.
No, let me start it first.
So RVs HTTPD Start.
Now let me verify this status.
I'll see here your head to the debris services running fine.
Now actually, I want to run a static website using this heterogeneity webserver.
Now let me take a content for my starting website as this one.
Now if you want to,
so any static website using HTTP web server,
you need to place index.html under dislocation.
Now let me navigate into that location.
Slash var.
Wow, HTML.
No, here we need to create index.html.
Let me create that. Now let me paste our static content.
Let me say we now,
our static content has been updated in this location.
Fine. Now let me access that index.html using curl command simply by
taking you are hedged http, localhost, colon 80.
Now by default you were HTTP web server will run on 80 port number.
So simply, I'm executing this URL.
See that you are getting your content which is there in your index.html.
That's fine.
If you observe, as of now,
we are inside of a container.
Now, I want to access this URL from outside of your container.
Now let me come out from your container.
Now we're outside of a container,
are simply on our docker host.
Now, how I can access the URL which is working inside of your container.
Suppose if I tried to run curl this URL,
see that connection refused because on our docker host we are not running HTTPD server.
We're running history deputy web server inside of a container.
Now, how we can access that head today,
deputy web server from your Docker host.
So for that, you need to map your Docker host port number with the word container port.
Actually, if you remember wildly creating our container,
we did not map any port of your Docker host with your Docker container.
Now, our intention is we are running head
to redeploy the web server on port number 80 inside of a container.
That's why before creating your container unit to
map the port number 80 with your Docker host to port number.
You can take any port on your Docker host.
And that podia to map with your head to the d pd web server port,
which is running inside of your container.
Now, first let me remove your existing container.
So simply by taking Docker,
docker, remove running container.
So you have to take hyphen F forcefully.
I am removing this container.
Fine.
So be clear. Whenever, if you want to
access the application which is running inside of a container,
you need to map your Docker host to port number with the word container port number.
So container port number is nothing but on which you put your application is running.
Now for that, nothing is, they're very simple.
Already. We know docker run command to create a container.
In that command itself,
we have to add one more option that is hyphen p port number.
Now here I am taking just to avoid confusion,
80 on my Docker host.
Map with 80 on my container.
Be clear.
These first two parties on our docker host second port is on our Docker container.
If you wanted to get more clarity,
let me take here ADHD.
So what I want the Portuguese there on my Docker host that is 8080.
I am mapping that port with the API of my container.
Now let me run it.
Now.
Let me run docker ps command.
Now see that in your container information.
Ports, this is your Docker host.
Docker host to port number is mapper width 80 of your container port.
Now let me log in into your container.
Docker EXE c hyphen IT.
Bashful.
Now first, this is new container which we created just No,
let me install once again this HTTPD by using m install HTTPD.
So meanwhile, let me copy the our index.html.
Now you had to wait for some time.
It is almost are done.
Fine.
Now, let me navigate into Var www slash HTML.
So here let me create an index.html file.
Inside that, we have to paste our static website content.
Fine.
Now, we created index.html.
First, let me verify whether you are HTTP web server is serving
your static website from your container itself.
So inside of your container,
you can run in this way.
I mean, CAL, HTTP, localhost, colon 80.
See that? Ok, you are hated.
Httpd web server is not running.
Let me verify service HTTPD status.
Now let me start it. Okay, now let me verify this status.
Nobody is running. Now it is ready to serve you as static website.
Now let me verify using curl command.
That's it.
And one more thing. Generally, if you run hostname command on your servers,
it will do the host name the same way inside of your container.
If you run host name,
it will do the host name of your container simply your container read-only.
Fine.
Now, axis iva static website through
your HTTP web server by taking
HTTP colon slash slash local host audio or container ID inside of your container.
Now let me come out from your container weekly.
Now, let me run docker ps c,
whatever the application is running with the port number 80 inside of your container.
Now that application port is mapped with the 8080 on your Docker host.
That's why you know,
if you run a curl command from your Docker host to access your application,
you have to take h 0 h report.
Now let me run Carl hedge vdp localhost,
or it can also take this IP colon 8080.
Now see the result you are getting.
Now actually this application is running inside of your container,
but we exposed that portrait to your container.
We map that to port 80,
to port off our docker host.
That's why we can able to access that URL from your Docker host.
Fine.
Now, I want to access this URL.
I want to access this URL from my browser.
So how we can access it.
Now if you want to access from your browser,
you need to get the public IP or IP of your server.
Now here I'm using EC2 instance to run my Docker, Docker host.
I'm running on my EC2 instance.
For this EC2 instance,
this is the public IP.
Just take these public IP based it, colon 8080.
And now let me add here HTTP slash slash C.
Yes, we are able to access that application from our browser.
So be clear, even though if you run your application inside of a container,
you need to map the application port number with your Docker host.
Because from external world,
if you want to access your application,
you how to access your application always with respect to your Docker host only.
That's why we are mapping Dakota hosts to port
number with your container application port number.
That's it.
So that is the concept of how to
access the application which is running inside of a container.
So be clear, we can access the application which is
running inside of a container using port mapping.
So that port mapping with the what Docker host.
So simply, by using this command,
we can map your Docker host to port with your content and applications port.
So be clear, you can always access your application or micro surveys from outside,
from external world with respect to your Docker host only.
That's why we are mapping our docker host port number
with your container application port number, let's say, okay.
Okay, I thank you for watching this video.